# Mirasys VMS V9.7.0 release notes | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/release-notes/releasenotes/v9-7-0-release-notes

Mirasys VMS V9.7.0 release notes
Release date: 05.02.2024
ONVIF Profile M conformance and alarm triggering

Our software is listed as ONVIF profile M conformant from version 9.7. It now responds to the triggering of an alarm generated by camera analytics. This significant update allows our VMS to respond effectively to alarm triggers, enhancing the security and responsiveness of your surveillance setup.

To ensure seamless integration and compliance, we have tested this new feature with Axis, Bosch, and Hanwha camera brands.

ONVIF Profile T privacy masking support

Our ONVIF driver has been updated to detect automatically if a Profile T device supports privacy masking. This feature provides greater control over video surveillance content and allows users to add, remove, or modify privacy masking for our VMS in the System Manager.

VCA Core V2 (Latest update is V2.2.1)

The latest version of VCA Core (V2.2.1) is included in Mirasys 9.7, with the following features:

Ability to detect aggressive behavior.

Ability to detect falls

Ability to detect directional crossing

Ability to detect repeated behavior

Ability to detect persons with their hands up

Deep learning object tracker classes are now person, bus, motorcycle, bicycle, car, van, truck, forklift, and bag (for triggering alarms)

Support for different event state possibilities: start (default), on, stop. Note that the states on and stop are only available if defined in VCA Core config files.

VCA settings are not backward compatible (9.7 → 9.6): VCA configuration directory handling has been changed.

Identify users through a username separate from the user login ID

To improve platform security, users can be identified through a separate username so as not to display and compromise the user login ID. 

The System Administrator can define a public name for users in the System Manager user settings. The public username should be unique. This is not mandatory, and the field can also be left blank.

As before, the user will use the login user name to log into any application, but if a public user name has been entered for the user, this public username will be displayed in the client UI.

Sharing Tab Content with selected users

Users can now share tab content with selected users, providing greater control over information dissemination. Sharing can be restricted based on the assigned user role, aligning with organizational policies and ensuring secure access management. Logged-in users are displayed when sharing tab content, enabling more informed sharing decisions. Users can choose whether to share the tab content with others after saving a tab in Spotter.

A list of potential users is presented for selection, including the option to share the tab with all users. This allows for specific or broad sharing as per user discretion. Users are listed alphabetically, with logged-in users (indicated by a green dot) displayed first, followed by those not logged in (indicated by a grey dot), also in alphabetical order.

The Spotter profile tree displays all tabs saved by the user, tabs shared by others to all users, and tabs specifically saved for the logged-in user, filtered by accessible profiles.

Delay failover to prevent data loss

The failover process has been updated to prevent data loss during the failover process, for example, during the recorder update.

During material copy from the failover recorder, the restored recorder checks its recorded data first, then copies only missing material (including video, audio, text data, metadata, and ANPR data).

Delay Failover can be enabled only for recorders V9.7 or newer, as recorders pre-V9.7 do not support selective material copy, and data will overlap.

This functionality can be enabled in the System Manager > VMS Servers General dialog, checkbox Wait for the recorder to apply settings).

License Plate Recognition Enhancements

The LPR integration service now can:

Save the original image with the detection information

Save the image in a case where there are no detected plates

Return a unique ID that can be used for retrieving the data

Adding comments before using playback

The system administrator can now force a user to add a comment before using playback to state why the playback mode is being used before moving into playback mode. The playback comment will be added to the audit log.

If a Playback audit comment is required, then in real-time mode, the StepBackward and StepForward buttons are disabled and enabled again in playback mode after the comment has been added.

When loading a layout with streams in playback mode, a comment needs to be added by the user before the layout is loaded.

Enhanced Bit Rate Modes for Axis Cameras

Mirasys Axis Driver now supports multiple-bit rate modes, allowing our users to choose the most suitable bit rate mode for optimal network and storage utilization.

Our driver detects supported bitrate modes from the camera automatically. If, for example, the camera’s capabilities do not support MBR, then it will not be available in the System Manager settings

Variable Bit Rate (VBR) Support for Newer Axis Cameras, building on our existing support for VBR in older camera models via VAPIX 2.0. This allows for adaptive bitrate control, optimizing video quality and storage efficiency.

Added support for Constant Bit Rate (CBR), crucial for environments requiring stable bandwidth consumption, ensuring predictable network performance without fluctuations in video quality.

Added support for Multiple Bit Rate (MBR) Streaming to enhance flexibility and adaptability in various network conditions. This feature is particularly useful in scenarios where different users need access to the video feed at varying quality levels, catering to diverse bandwidth capabilities.

Signal Lost Event in Bosch Native Driver

Users now have the option to enable a 'signal lost event' in the Bosch native driver when utilizing Bosch encoders. This feature is particularly useful for monitoring signal integrity and ensuring consistent surveillance. This setting is adjustable in System Manager. When a user sets this option to 'true,' it will remain so even after VMS updates or driver updates. This ensures that user preferences for monitoring signal events are maintained consistently without reconfiguring settings post-update.

Spotter Device Tree Enhancements

Layouts, Plugins, Bookmarks, and Saved Tabs are now separated in the Spotter Device Tree to improve loading time.

System Manager Enhancements

License Plate Recognition and Face Recognition settings have improved usability.

The Server Name is now displayed on the Window when using the System Manager.

The Server Name is now displayed for Hardware Settings, Camera Settings, VCA Settings, Digital I/O Settings, Alarms, Storage Settings, and Text Channel Settings.

System Improvement: Updated system components

System components for the SMTP client, Web API, and activity cache have been updated.

Oncam de-warping updated

The camera 360 plugin used for de-warping 360 camera images has been updated with the latest Oncam SDK.

Bug fixes
Spotter

Fixed: The Spotter Export button works as intended.

Fixed: Users can log in again without any issue when the alarm pop-up tab is opened in the Spotter.

Fixed: Alarm activity grouping work as intended in Spotter timeline.

Fixed: The Smart Search thumbnail now displays images for vehicles correctly.

Fixed: Exporting the video clip to the spotter window while the pop-up tab with some alarm events open works as expected.

Fixed: Virtualisation is working as intended for components such as ListBox.

Fixed: Smart Search's primary sort criteria is object type (face/plate), and the secondary sort criteria is confidence value.

Fixed: Spotter works as intended when changing profile.

Fixed: All data is exported when exporting an MP4 file with a timestamp.

Fixed: Spotter works as intended on profile updates in setups using large profiles.

Fixed: Unnecessary errors spamming Spotter logs have been removed.

Fixed: Spotter.exe exits when intended and does not keep running in the background.

Spotter Web

Fixed: When Spotter Web is in live mode, changing the date and time works as expected.

Fixed: When one user logs off or timeout in Spotter Web, all other Spotter Web connections continue to work as intended.

Fixed: Unnecessary data is not returned to Spotter web front end when users log in or when profiles are loaded.

Fixed: Spotter Web works as intended when exports are deleted.

Fixed: Default IP address will be used if the Main DVR’s IP address is unreachable during installation.

Fixed: Reduced the length of the file name to 64 characters when exporting from Spotter Web so that it will not affect the extraction of compressed files.

Fixed: Alarm events are displayed correctly on Spotter Web after login.

Fixed: Spotter Web Export works as intended.

Fixed: Spotter Web login works as intended when the SMServer has not connected to the recorder.

Fixed: Alarm events in Desktop and web clients are in sync.

System Manager

Fixed: Audit Trail time sorting sorts events in the correct order.

Fixed: System Manager works as expected when removing devices.

Fixed: Manually adding the network path is not allowed in the Destination Directory.

Fixed: System Manager works as intended when opening VCA settings and using other than 100% Windows scaling.

Fixed: Exporting the VCA log file works as expected.

Fixed: Privacy mask dialogue shows the whole image for hallway view (90 degrees).

Fixed: The list of operations in the Audit Trail search corresponds to current operation types in the database.

Fixed: Device selection in LPR and FR settings for other devices works as intended.

Fixed: License validation and logging work as intended.

Fixed: Opening and closing VMS Server settings work as expected.

Fixed: System manager settings update works as intended.

VMS Server

Fixed: The Recorder works as intended after a clean installation.

Fixed: DVR tried to read the VCA log occupied by the VCA service.

Fixed: VMS backup is working as intended.

Fixed: VMS Server works for failover as intended.

Fixed: Query for motion detection resolution works as intended.

Fixed: Time delay when adding a new device to VMS Server.

Fixed: VCAcore Rule for people occupancy counting using Threshold Operator greater works as intended with VCAcore V2.2.1.

Fixed: Streaming from the camera when using camera hardware motion detection.

Fixed: The recorder no longer hangs following a settings update on a case when the “settings applying” takes a long time.

License Plate Recognition | Face Recognition | List Management

Fixed: Face Recognition detection of faces has been enhanced.

Fixed: Settings are removed when uninstalling LPRI Service if "Remove settings" is selected.

Fixed: LPR integration service works as intended after the computer restart.

System

Fixed: SMServer works as intended when the Licenses folder is deleted.

Fixed: VCA metadata content is available after the VMS upgrade to major versions.

Fixed: Uninstallation works as intended.

Fixed: The SMServer sets data encryption for the file download operation.

Fixed: Installer spelling.

Drivers

Fixed: Streaming directly from the camera works as expected with TruCast ONVIF Driver.

Fixed: ONVIF driver works as intended if a camera sends inaccurate data or starts playing from the wrong time position.

Fixed: Milesight MS-C8172-FIPC passes tests with DeviceCompatibilityTool version 1.0.4.0.

Fixed: Axis cameras with multi-channels work as intended with the Axis Driver.

Fixed: The Onvif driver works correctly with MD on the camera side in V1.9.2.8

Fixed: Video streaming is stable without framerate drop.

Fixed: The Onvif driver works as intended for streaming without framerate drop.

Fixed: Onvif 1.9.2.7 is working as expected with DeskCam software.

Tools

Fixed: Device Combability Tool now generates thumbnail from test video.




You can download the release notes as a PDF file here V9.7.0 Release Notes.pdf

Pagination
Previous page
Mirasys VMS V9.7.1 release notes
Next page
Mirasys VMS V9.6.3 release notes