# Spotter Web Guide | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/spotter-web-guide/V9.9

Spotter Web Guide

Mirasys Documentation
About Spotter Web
Spotter Web is HTML5 based client application Note! We recommend you turn off HW acceleration in the Firefox browser settings. The Firefox browser has problems…
Installation
If you want to use Spotter Web, the Main server must be V9.4 or newer! OS limitations If SpotterWeb is installed on client OS, there can be a maximum of 10 sim…
Network topology
Mirasys Spotter Web installed to the same PC with Mirasys VMS Mirasys Spotter Web installed to the separate PC Mirasys Spotter Web site Mirasys Spotter Web Pub…
Login
Open browser Type https://Spotter website computer name/ Enter the username and password Click OK Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) Two-Factor Authentication (2F…
Spotter Web Desktop UI
Profile Device tree Work Area Playback controls Grid selection Export material Show alarms Fullscreen PTZ control Logout and Settings View management
Opening & closing cameras
Select the amount of the grids or use Automatic Opening cameras Left mouse click top of the camera name in the device tree Selected cameras are opened with the…
Playback
Instant playback Select camera or cameras from the device tree Click playback Change the playback speed by clicking the mouse left of the playback buttons or u…
Views
From the views, users can select the pre-defined grids to the views
PTZ Control
Open PTZ camera to the real-time view Click PTZ Control Click Reserve control of XXXX Open PTZ Control Control PTZ camera using arrows Zoom, Focus, Iris Contro…
Spotter Web Alarms
The alarm list can be opened from the lower-left corner If there are no active alarms, the icon is GREEN Active Alarms If there are active alarms, the icon is …
Spotter Web Export
Exporting materials Click the Export material icon from the lower right corner Set name for the Export Select items to export Set Start time Set End time Selec…