# Mirasys Spotter Guide V9.7 (English) | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/spotter-user-guide/V-9.9

Mirasys Spotter Guide V9.7 (English)

Mirasys Documentation
Introduction
Mirasys Spotter is a modern, easy-to-use application for viewing live and recorded video and exporting video clips. Mirasys Spotter can be used to create multi…
Installing Spotter
A Spotter is installed with other applications when the standard VMS installer is used. If a user wants to install only the Spotter client, he can use the dedi…
Starting Spotter and Logging In
A Spotter is started by double-clicking the Spotter icon on the desktop is also possible to start Spotter automatically when the computer boots up. See more fr…
Changing the Spotter language
Click File\Settings Select a correct language from the drop-down list Click Save
Spotter UI
Here you can see an overview of the different Spotter user interface components.
Real-time mode
Real-time mode is shown when the playback controls are white and great and the timeline indicator is white. Selected cameras show the current time in the upper…
Playback mode
When the playback mode is used, Spotter shows always latest recorded time from those cameras, which the user has selected to the view
Export
Bookmarks
Search Tools
The search tab contains multiple search tools: Alarm Search Motion search Person search Text data search Thumbnail search Watchdog Event Search
Layouts Management
Layouts contain all content settings of Spotter and are helpful when the user has perfected a monitoring view and wants to save it for future use. Layouts cont…
Device Tabs Management
Only streams of cameras that are on the open tab are sent to the Spotter.Cameras on the "hidden" tabs are not using network bandwidth to the Spotter but will r…
PTZ Control and Management
Enabling PTZ Control Open needed camera to the real-time view Open camera toolbar Click Camera and select PTZ control Controlling PTZ camera PTZ camera can be …
Alarm Management
The alarms tab contains below functions: Alarm list behavior Alarm view Alarm popup Alarm search
Daylight Savings Time (DST)
This guide explains how to handle potential issues caused by the Daylight Saving Time (DST) transitions when using our video management software (VMS). It also…
System Monitoring
System Monitoring contains: Camera Audit Diagnostic Watchdog Event Search
Failover Logs
Failover log in Spotter To see failover events in Spotter, the user role for that must be enabled in System Manager Spotter user role settings. By default, fai…
Plugins
Input devices
Spotter 360 Cameras
Spotter Settings
Various functions can be accessed from the Settings menu. General Export Storyboard export Storyboard draft Alarms Plugins Streaming Video Display Data cache A…
Spotter Keyboard Shortcuts
Keyboard shortcuts to use with Spotter. All keyboard shortcuts are always available when using Spotter unless otherwise noted. Spotter keyboard shortcuts Overv…
Spotter About Screen
The Spotter About window contains information about the installed plugins and their licenses.