# Mirasys VMS Admin Guide | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/mirasys-vms-admin-guide/V9.8

Mirasys VMS Admin Guide

System Administration

Mirasys Documentation
Overview of This Guide
This guide is intended for those who set up a Mirasys system. It shows how to add servers to the system and change their settings, add user accounts and user p…
Technical Support
For technical support and warranty issues, please contact the system supplier.
What is the Mirasys VMS software?
Mirasys software is a distributed digital video management system (VMS or DVMS) for video and audio surveillance applications. The software can monitor real-ti…
OS Compatibility
Mirasys VMS V9 supports the following operating systems: Operating System Server with analogue camera support via capture cards Server with only IP cameras or …
Configuring the System
After connecting the cameras and other devices to the servers, configure the system settings and add user accounts and user profiles. To configure the system, …
Log In
This section describes how to log in and log off from System Manager. Only system administrators or users with monitoring rights will be allowed to log in to S…
Management User Interface
The System Manager User Interface contains these elements: Menu bar File Log Off Lock Program Import Export Maintenance Set maintenance state on to control the…
System
You can edit and backup system settings on the System tab, monitor the system and examine diagnostic information about the course. You can also change license …
The VMS Servers
On the VMS Servers tab, you can configure these settings for each server: Icon Name Description General Change the name and the description of the server. Here…
Profiles
In Mirasys VMS, Profiles define which VMS components the user has access to and what kind of user rights the user has for the components. The system has one de…
Users and User groups
All users belong to a user group (see below), through which their use rights are defined and managed. The administrator can add new user groups, set varying us…
TruCast
TruCast is the direct camera video streaming feature in Mirasys VMS. With TruCast, the video stream comes directly from the camera to the viewing client, the S…
Failover Servers
❗ If you need to failover also the VCA channels, the failover server must contain the correct amount of the activated VCA channels. Mirasys VMS supports failov…
Failback
Supported from V9.5.0 In V9.5.0 failback can be done either automatically or manually and there is no need to use settings backup to revert the failover. The F…