# VCA Filters - Object Filter | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/ai-guides/V9.9/vca-filters-object-filter

VCA Filters - Object Filter

The object classification filter provides the ability to filter out objects, which trigger a rule if they are not classified as a certain class (e.g. person, vehicle).

The object classification filter must be combined with another rule(s) to prevent unwanted objects from triggering an alert, an example rule graph is provided to illustrate this below.

The previous image illustrates how the object classification filter configured with Vehicle class, includes only Vehicle objects.

The person in the zone is filtered out since the Person class is not selected in the filter list.

The channel must be calibrated for the object classification filter to be available.

Use table header to sort columns

Property

	

Description

	

Default Value




Name

	

A user-specified name for this rule

	

"Object Filter #"




Can Trigger Actions

	

Specifies whether events generated by this rule trigger actions

	

Active




Input

	

The input rule

	

None




Classes

	

The object classes allowed to trigger an alert

	

None

Typical Logical Rule Combination

The below example logical rule checks if the object triggering the presence rule attached to zone Centre, is also classified as a Vehicle as specified by the Object Filter Vehicle Filter.

Only the Object filter is set to Can Trigger Actions, meaning only this component of the logical rule will be available as a source for actions.

Additionally, any activity generated by the speed filter will have the event type Presence.




Pagination
Previous page
VCA Filters - Speed Filter
Next page
VCA Filters - Colour Filter