# VCA Filters - Deep Learning Filter | Mirasys Help Center

Source: https://documentation.mirasys.com/ai-guides/V9.9/vca-filters-deep-learning-filter

VCA Filters - Deep Learning Filter

The deep learning filter provides the ability to filter out objects, which trigger a rule if they are not classified as a certain class by the deep learning model.

The deep learning filter settings are configured on the Deep Learning page. 

See Deep Learning Filter for an in-depth description of how the filter works.

Typically the deep learning filter would be combined with another rule(s) to prevent unwanted objects from triggering an alert, an example rule graph is provided to illustrate this below. Please note that the deep learning filter cannot be used as an input to any other rule type. As such it must be the last rule in a graph

The previous image illustrates how the deep learning filter configured with just vehicle class (Confidence Threshold 0.5), only triggers on the vehicle object.

The person in the zone is filtered out since the person class Allowed setting is not enabled in the Deep Learning configuration page.

Use table header to sort columns

Property

	

Description

	

Default Value




Name

	

A user-specified name for this rule

	

"DL Filter #"




Can Trigger Actions

	

Specifies whether events generated by this rule trigger actions

	

Active




Input

	

The input rule

	

None

Typical Logical Rule Combination

The below example logical rule checks if the object triggering the presence rule attached to zone Centre, is one of the classes of interest defined in the Deep Learning settings page (see above settings page image).
Only the deep learning filter is set to Can Trigger Actions, meaning only this component of the logical rule will be available as a source for actions.

Additionally, any activity generated by the speed filter will have the event type Presence.

Pagination
Previous page
VCA Filters - Retrigger Filter
Next page
Conditional Rule Types